en/1-foundations/1-1/1_installing-and-launching-grasshopper.md, before:

### 1.1.1. INSTALLING AND LAUNCHING GRASSHOPPER

#####The Grasshopper plugin is updated frequently so be sure to update to the latest build.
#####Note that there is currently no version of Grasshopper for Mac.


####1.1.1.1. DOWNLOADING
To download the Grasshopper plug-in, visit the Grasshopper web site. Click on
the Download tab at the top of the page, and when prompted on the next screen,
enter your email address. Now, right click on the download link, and choose Save
Target As from the menu. Select a location on your hard drive (note: the file
cannot be loaded over a network connection, so the file must be saved locally
to your computer’s hard drive) and save the executable file to that address.

![](images/1-1-1/1-1-1_001-downloading.png)

>Download Grasshopper from the [grasshopper3d.com](http://grasshopper3d.com) website.


####1.1.1.2. INSTALLING
Select Run from the download dialog box follow the installer instructions.
(note: you must have Rhino 5 already installed on your computer for the plug-in
to install properly).

![IMAGE](images/1-1-1/1-1-1_002-installing.png)
>Follow the steps in the Installation wizard.

####1.1.1.3. LAUNCHING
To launch Grasshopper, type Grasshopper into the Rhino Command line. When you
launch Grasshopper, the first thing you will see is a new window floating in
front of Rhino. Within this window you can create node-based programs to
automate various types of functionality in Rhino. Best practice is to arrange
the windows so that they do not overlap and Grasshopper does not obstruct the
Rhino viewports.

![IMAGE](images/1-1-1/1-1-1_003-launching-a.png)
>Type “Grasshopper” into the Rhino command line to launch the Grasshopper plugin.


![IMAGE](images/1-1-1/1-1-1_004-launching-b.png)
>1. The Grasshopper window floats on top of the Rhino viewports.
>2. Grasshopper displays the version number at the bottom of the window.

![IMAGE](images/1-1-1/1-1-1_005-launching-c.png)
>Split the screen so that Grasshopper does not obstruct the Rhino Viewports.
You can do this by dragging each window to opposite sides of the screen, or by
holding the Windows key and pressing the left or right arrows.

Commit message:

How did that "and" get missed?
This file was good enough to leave alone except for the missing "and" in
line 21 but you know how when you reach down to pick up a speck of crumb
of the floor and look around while you are down there to see what else
you can pick up? The rest of the changes in this commit are kinda like
that.

Anyway, we don't want the users who don't have enough screen page to be
completely discouraged yet.  And we don't users on Vista or XP (without
Aerosnap installed) to already not trust our document because holding
the Windows key down and pressing left or right arrows doesn't work as
we said it would.

en/1-foundations/1-1/1_installing-and-launching-grasshopper.md, after:

### 1.1.1. INSTALLING AND LAUNCHING GRASSHOPPER

#####The Grasshopper plugin is updated frequently so be sure to update to the latest build.
#####Note that there is currently no version of Grasshopper for Mac.


####1.1.1.1. DOWNLOADING
To download the Grasshopper plug-in, visit the Grasshopper web site. Click on
the Download tab at the top of the page, and when prompted on the next screen,
enter your email address. Now, right click on the download link, and choose Save
Target As from the menu. Select a location on your hard drive (note: the file
cannot be loaded over a network connection, so the file must be saved locally
to your computer’s hard drive) and save the executable file to that address.

![](images/1-1-1/1-1-1_001-downloading.png)

>Download Grasshopper from the [grasshopper3d.com](http://grasshopper3d.com) website.


####1.1.1.2. INSTALLING
Select Run from the download dialog box and follow the installer instructions.
(*Note: you must have Rhino 5 already installed on your computer for the plug-in
to install properly*).

![IMAGE](images/1-1-1/1-1-1_002-installing.png)
>Follow the steps in the Installation wizard.

####1.1.1.3. LAUNCHING
To launch Grasshopper, type Grasshopper into the Rhino Command line. If
Grasshopper is installed correctly, the first thing you will see is its splash
screen showing a progress bar while it finishes loading. Once Grasshopper
launches, the next thing you will see after the splash screen disappears*) is a
new window floating in front of Rhino. This window is Grasshopper's User
Interface (UI) within which you can create node-based programs to automate
various types of functionality in Rhino. Best practice (*if you have a large
enough screen or more than one screen*) is to arrange the windows so that they
do not overlap and Grasshopper does not obstruct the Rhino viewports. *If your
setup does not allow this, the Remote Control Panel may help (see 1.1.3.6).*

![IMAGE](images/1-1-1/1-1-1_003-launching-a.png)
>This splash screen appears after typing “Grasshopper” in the Rhino command
line while Grasshopper prepares to open its UI.


![IMAGE](images/1-1-1/1-1-1_004-launching-b.png)
>1. The Grasshopper window floats on top of the Rhino viewports.
>2. Grasshopper displays its version number in the bottom right corner of its window.

![IMAGE](images/1-1-1/1-1-1_005-launching-c.png)
>Split the screen so that Grasshopper does not obstruct the Rhino Viewports.
You can do this by dragging each window to opposite sides of the screen, or if
on Windows 7 or higher (*or with Aerosnap installed*) by holding the Windows key
and pressing the left or right arrows.
